Earlier this week, I signed
into law the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act --
the most sweeping economic
recovery plan in history.
Because of this plan, 3.5
million Americans will now go
to work doing the work
that America needs done.
I'm grateful to Congress,
governors and mayors
across the country, and to all
of you whose support made
this critical step possible.
Because of what
we did together,
there will now be shovels in
the ground, cranes in the air,
and workers rebuilding our
crumbling roads and bridges,
and repairing our
faulty levees and dams.
Because of what we did,
companies -- large and small --
that produce renewable
energy can now apply
for loan guarantees and tax
credits and find ways to grow,
instead of laying people off;
and families can lower
their energy bills
by weatherizing their homes.
Because of what we did, our
children can now graduate
from 21st century schools
and millions more can do what
was unaffordable just last week
-- and get their
college degree.
Because of what we did,
lives will be saved
and health care
costs will be cut
with new computerized
medical records.
Because of what we did, there
will now be police on the beat,
firefighters on the job, and
teachers preparing lesson plans
who thought they
would not be able
to continue pursuing
their critical missions.
And ensure that
all of this is done
with an unprecedented
level of transparency
and accountability, I have
assigned a team of managers
to make sure that precious tax
dollars are invested wisely
and well.
Because of what we did,
95 percent of all working
families will get a tax cut --
in keeping with a promise
I made on the campaign.
And I'm pleased to
announce that this morning,
the Treasury Department
began directing employers
to reduce the amount of taxes
withheld from paychecks --
meaning that by April 1st,
a typical family will
begin taking home
at least $65 more every month.
Never before in our history has
a tax cut taken effect faster
or gone to so many
hardworking Americans.
But as important as it was that
I was able to sign this plan
into law, it is only a
first step on the road
to economic recovery.
And we can't fail to
complete the journey.
That will require stemming
the spread of foreclosures
and falling home values,
and doing all we can
to help responsible
homeowners stay in their homes,
which is exactly what the
housing plan I announced last
week will help us do.
It will require stabilizing and
repairing our banking system,
and getting credit
flowing again
to families and businesses.
It will require reforming
the broken regulatory system
that made this crisis possible,
and recognizing that it's only
by setting and enforcing 21st
century rules of the road
that we can build
a thriving economy.
And it will require
doing all we can
to get exploding
deficits under control
as our economy begins
to recover.
That work begins on Monday,
when I will convene a fiscal
summit of independent experts
and unions, advocacy groups
and members of Congress,
to discuss how we can cut
the trillion-dollar deficit
that we've inherited.
On Tuesday, I will
speak to the nation
about our urgent
national priorities.
And on Thursday, I'll
release a budget that's sober
in its assessments,
honest in its accounting,
and lays out in detail
my strategy for investing
in what we need,
cutting what we don't,
and restoring fiscal
discipline.
No single piece of this
broad economic recovery can,
by itself, meet the demands
that have been placed on us.
We can't help people find work
or pay their bills
unless we unlock credit
for families and businesses.
We can't solve our housing
crisis unless we help people
find work so that they can
make payments on their homes.
We can't produce shared
prosperity without firm rules
of the road, and we can't
generate sustained growth
without getting our
deficits under control.
In short, we cannot
successfully address any
of our problems without
addressing them all.
And that is exactly what the
strategy we are pursuing is
designed to do.
None of this will be easy.
The road ahead will be
long and full of hazards.
But I am confident that we,
as a people, have the strength
and wisdom to carry
out this strategy
and overcome this crisis.
And if we do, our economy
-- and our country --
will be better and
stronger for it.
Thank you.